The Project Gutenberg eBook of Proxy Planeteers, by Edmond Hamilton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Proxy Planeteers

Author: Edmond Hamilton

Release Date: August 2, 2022 [eBook #68669]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PROXY PLANETEERS ***





                           PROXY PLANETEERS

                          By EDMOND HAMILTON

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Startling Stories, July 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Doug Norris hesitated for an instant. He knew that another movement
might well mean disaster.

Here deep in the cavernous interior of airless Mercury, catastrophe
could strike suddenly. The rocks of the fissure he was following had a
temperature of hundreds of degrees. And he could hear the deep rumble
of shifting rock, close by.

But it was not these dangers of the infernal underworld that made him
hesitate. It was that sixth sense of imminent peril that he had felt
twice before while exploring the Mercurian depths. Each time, it had
ended disastrously.

"Just nerves," Norris muttered to himself. "The uranium vein is clearly
indicated. I've got to follow it."

As he again moved forward and followed that thin, black stratum in the
fissure wall, his eyes constantly searched ahead.

Then a half-dozen little clouds of glowing gas flowed toward him from a
branching fissure. Each was several feet in diameter, a faint-glowing
mass of vapor with a brighter core.

Norris moved hastily to avoid them. But there was a sudden flash of
light. Then everything went black before his eyes.

"It's happened to me again!" Doug Norris thought in sharp dismay.

Frantically he jiggled his controls, cut in emergency power switches,
overloaded his tight control beam to the limit. It was no use. He still
could not see or hear anything whatever.

Norris defeatedly took the heavy television helmet with its bulging
eyepieces off his head. He stared at the control-board, then looked
blankly out the window at the distant, sunlit stacks of New York Power
Station.

"Another Proxy gone! Seven of them wrecked in the last two weeks!"

It hadn't just happened, of course. It had happened eight minutes ago.
It took that long for the television beam from the Proxy to shuttle
from Mercury to this control-station outside New York. And it took as
long again for the Proxy control-beam to get back to it on Mercury.

Sometimes, a time-lag that long could get a Proxy into trouble before
its operator on Earth was aware of it. But usually that was not a big
factor of danger on a lifeless world like Mercury. The Proxies, built
of the toughest refractory metals, could stand nearly anything but an
earthquake, and keep on functioning.

"Each time, there's been no sign of falling rocks or anything like
that," Norris told himself, mystified. "Each time, the Proxy has just
blacked out with all its controls shot."

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, as his mind searched for some factor common to all the disasters,
a startled look came over Doug Norris' lean, earnest face.

"There _were_ always some of those clouds of radon or whatever they
are around, each time!" he thought. "I wonder if--" A red-hot thought
brought him to his feet. "Holy cats! Maybe I've got the answer!"

He jumped away from the Proxy-board without a further glance at that
bank of intricate controls, and hurried down a corridor.

Through the glass doors he passed, Norris could see the other operators
at work. Each sat in front of his control-board, wearing his television
helmet, flipping the switches with expert precision. Each was operating
a mechanical Proxy somewhere on Mercury.

Norris and all these other operators had been trained together when
Kincaid started the Proxy Project. They had been proud of their
positions, until recently. It _was_ a vitally important job, searching
out the uranium so sorely needed for Earth's atomic power supply.

The uranium and allied metals of Earth had years ago been ransacked
and used up. There was little on Venus or Mars. Mercury had much of
the precious metal in its cavernous interior. But no man, no matter
how ingenious his protection, could live long enough on the terrible,
semi-molten Hot Side of Mercury to conduct mining operations.

That was why Kincaid had invented the Proxies. They were machines
that could mine uranium where men couldn't go. Crewless ships guided
by radar took the Proxies to the Base on Mercury's sunward side. From
Base, each Proxy was guided by an Earth operator down into the hot
fissures to find and mine the vital radioactive element. The scheme had
worked well, until--

"Until we got into those deeper fissures with the Proxies," Doug Norris
thought. "Seven wrecked since then! This _must_ be the answer!"

Martin Kincaid looked up sharply as Norris entered his office. A look
of faint dismay came on Kincaid's square, patient face. He knew that
a Proxy operator wouldn't leave his board in the middle of a shift,
unless there was trouble.

"Go ahead and give me the bad news, Doug," he said wearily.

"Proxy M-Fifty just blacked out on me, down in Fissure Four," Norris
admitted. "Just like the others. But I think I know why, now!" He
continued excitedly: "Mart, seven Proxies blacking out in two weeks
wasn't just accident. It was done deliberately!"

Kincaid stared. "You mean that Hurriman's bunch is somehow sabotaging
our Project?"

Doug Norris interrupted with a denial. "Not that. Hurriman and his
fellow politicians merely want to get their hands on the Proxy Project,
not to destroy it."

"Then who did wreck our Proxies?" Kincaid demanded.

Norris answered excitedly. "I believe we've run into living creatures
in those depths, and they're attacking us."

Kincaid grunted. "The temperature in those fissures is about four
hundred degrees Centigrade, the same as Mercury's sunward side. Life
can't exist in heat like that. I suggest you take a rest."

"I know all that," Norris said impatiently. "But suppose we've run into
a new kind of life there--one based on radioactive matter? Biologists
have speculated on it more than once. Theoretically, creatures of
radioactive matter could exist, drawing their energies not from
chemical metabolism as we do, but from the continuous process of
radioactive disintegration."

"Theoretically, the sky is a big roof with holes in it that are stars,"
growled Kincaid. "It depends on whose theory you believe."

"Every time a Proxy has blacked out down there, there's been little
clouds of heavy radioactive gas near," argued Doug Norris. "Each seems
to have a denser core. Suppose that core is an unknown radium compound,
evolved into some kind of neuronic structure that is able to receive
and remember stimuli? A sort of queer, radioactive brain?

"If that's so, and biologists have said it's possible, the _body_ of
the creature consists of radon gas emanated from the radium core. You
remember the half-life of radon exactly equals the rate of its emission
from radium, so there'd be a constant equilibrium of the thing's
gaseous body, analogous to our blood circulation. Given Mercury's
conditions, it's no more impossible than a jellyfish or a man here on
Earth!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kincaid looked skeptical.

"And you think these hypothetical living Raddies of yours are attacking
our Proxies? Why would they?"

"If they have cognition and correlation faculties they might be
irritated by the tube emanations from the control-boxes of our
Proxies," Norris suggested. "They get into those control-boxes and
wreck the tube circuits by overloading the electron flow with their own
Beta radiation!"
